[Music]
hey what's up everyone it's assad here
welcome back to the 52 hearts channel
it's been a little while since you've
seen me as you can see i've moved into a
new spot and i've been in the process of
getting settled in and all also i have
been working on a really really big
project in the background here for quite
a while and i'm almost ready to launch
this thing i'm not going to say too much
right now there's going to be a lot more
information coming out soon but what i
will say is that it is a brand new
playing card project and it will be
launching on kickstarter okay there's
going to be a massive early bird day one
bonus for those of you who support this
thing on that first day so if you want
to stay in the loop and make sure you
don't miss this thing what you can do is
you can sign up for the wait list
there's a link down below where you just
enter email address and that way you'll
be notified of all the important
information and the release date and all
that okay i'm not going to say anything
else for now uh but stay tuned for more
information regarding that soon okay
that being said let's get into today's
video i'm gonna be teaching you one of
my favorite moves of all time it's
called the top shot by the great
magician leonard green now i originally
taught this move like 10 years ago on
this channel and the way that i taught
it back then was very close to the way
that it was originally published well
today i'm going to be showing you a
modified hand link which i personally
prefer it makes it a bit more efficient
and i think you guys are going to like
this a lot this is an advanced move it's
going to take quite a bit of practice
but it's well worth it i'm also going to
be showing you a variation that allows
you to use the same technique
but with a more long range form of the
shot which also looks awesome so let's
go behind the card table and i'll talk
to you more about this thing
okay so the first thing that we need to
cover is the grip that we're going to
use when actually doing the shot okay
and this is the main way that this
modified handling is different because
in the original handling in order to do
this shot the first step was to go from
you know a standard mechanics grip like
this and then to take your first finger
and move it to the side of the deck to a
grip like this
okay
and what i realized after doing this for
a while is that this grip change of
moving your first finger to the side
really isn't necessary and i feel like
it's just a more efficient a better
economy of motion to leave your first
finger where it is and you're still able
to do the shot uh perfectly fine now you
still need to do a minor a more minor
grip change but because you don't need
to do as drastic of a grip change it
just makes it more convenient so that as
you're holding the deck you know as you
normally would with just a minor change
you can get into position and do the
shot in my opinion that makes this
method this handling
a bit better it cleans it up a little
bit so here's the grip change that you
still need to do it's just a more minor
change so this is a standard mechanics
grip right here this is what it looks
like
and
you know i'm going to assume that you're
we're very well familiar with a standard
grip first we're going to curl around
the front edge usually the
kind of the top or excuse me the bottom
left
end of the deck is kind of resting on
this area
i don't know what you would call this
area but this joint right here
and then normally there's like quite a
bit of empty space below the deck and
then you have your left fingers
extending above the right edge okay
that's a standard mechanics grip but
what we need to do now is to modify this
grip just a little bit so that it will
allow us to take our pinky and rest
basically our entire last knuckle
on top of the deck because we need to be
able to grip that top card to flip to
flick it off and to do the shot okay and
from a standard mechanics grip it's kind
of tough because
you know our pinky is just only
extending above that right edge of the
deck a little bit it's not enough to get
a good grip on the top card so here's
what we do
we're going to go from here
to hair it's a very minor change here to
here and in this grip
notice how there's plenty of space for
me to grip that top card with my pinky
and that allows me to apply the
necessary pressure to do the shot
so what's changing here
is really just uh two i guess two main
things
to do the change you're gonna kind of
lift up a little bit you're going to
kind of pivot the back end of the deck
up a little bit
and then you're going to change
the position where the deck is resting
because once again normally the deck is
kind of resting right here
and then it's resting on kind of the
first knuckle of your right hand fingers
we want to change it so that now the
deck is resting
kind of more hair
instead of the outer left corner resting
here it's more like the inner left
corner is resting
more around here
okay
so to do the change you go from here
you kind of just pivot the back end up a
little bit and then with my right
fingers kind of base my right fingers
all i'm kind of doing is pulling to the
left a little bit that's going to allow
the deck to go from here
to here so now notice how
the most of the weight of the deck is
now being supported
by this area
okay and it's that inner left
end of the cards also notice how
the
the deck is contacting a different
point in my left fingers because
normally it's like the bottom of the
deck is resting on that first knuckle of
my left hand fingers but after the grip
change
now it's like the top of the deck is
contacting that first knuckle and the
bottom of the deck
is resting on basically
where your fingers begin
okay so by making those two changes of
the resting point being here
and then allowing
you to be holding a deeper grip with
your fingers
now what you can do is extend that first
finger above and wrap around and get a
really nice
uh grip on that top card
and you're basically going to pull down
on that top card applying a bit of
pressure with your pinky and at the same
time with your left thumb you're also
kind of pulling down
on the outer left corner so these are
your two pivot points here
and here
so really what's happening is you're
kind of flexing the deck like this but
just a very minor amount
and you're all doing it with your left
hand
see that you're creating a little bit of
tension in the deck
and that's going to create the force
necessary to then
do the shot so when you're ready to do
the shot you're applying this pressure
and what's going to happen is you're
going to apply
extra force with your pinky down
allowing the outer left corner of that
top card to kind of escape the grip from
your thumb
okay and if you do that the right way
you're basically building up potential
energy and you're releasing once that
card is released from the grip of your
thumb
it's very difficult to demonstrate this
slowly but in slow motion really what's
happening is
the card is flipping up
it's flipping out it's turning over in
the process
and then it's turning about half it's
turning 90 degrees half rotation
clockwise and then it lands in your
extended hand
okay and then the other key component
here is that when you do the shot you
need to time
the extension of your left hand fingers
to allow clearance for that shot to
actually fly out
so this is a difficult move again guys
it's going to take quite a bit of
practice to get all the movements
correct
and to get the timing right and then and
then obviously you need to practice the
catch learning how to catch the car to
reliably is really going to come down to
being able to shoot the card
reliably in the same spot so that you
have a sense of
you know when to expect it and then you
can just kind of close your fingers
around it i just clamp down with my
thumb
but really almost all of the work 99 of
the work comes down to the left hand and
once you are very consistent with your
shot once you have practiced this to the
point where you can control the speed
and control the position or the location
where the shot is going to go or where
the card is going to go then it's a very
easy matter of just
catching it with your right hand because
you know exactly where it's going to be
you're just going to have to do a bunch
of repetitions here in the beginning
your fingers are probably gonna feel
kind of sore uh what i'll do now is i'll
do it with my right hand which i have
not practiced and this will hopefully
give you an idea of what you know
challenges you're gonna
face when you first start learning
okay so that's
probably something that's going to
happen for you right there
okay that was a little bit better at
least it kind of fell off the deck but i
didn't open my fingers enough
to allow it to actually clear
so i'm just gonna
keep doing this just to give you an idea
i'm hoping i can at least get one
successful shot
uh it's not gonna look great
but okay that was better it shot off the
deck this is tricky you guys this is
really an advanced move
and uh just don't give up okay
eventually this
mediocrity that you just witnessed is
gonna
hopefully turn into something very
reliable where you can do let's see how
many in a row i can do
five
okay that one kind of messed up
um
so we'll call it five and a half six
seven
eight nine
ten
eleven so you get the point like it is
very difficult in the beginning but once
you get the hang of it it becomes a very
consistent and reliable move that you
can use and there's so many great
applications for something like this
when most people do this move they'll do
it at a relatively short range so that
the card only revolves 90 degrees before
landing in your opposite hand
and it's very short it's very snappy
very visual very sudden
well you can easily do a variation of
this where it's a much longer range shot
and the only difference in the technique
is you're just applying a bit more force
than usual when flicking that card off
with your pinky and then you're just
extending your arms out and you're
allowing the card to do a number of
revolutions before landing in your
opposite hand
and so i would just experiment with
different amounts of force that you're
applying with your pinky and then you
also want to make sure that you're
shooting at such an angle that the card
remains parallel to the surface of the
floor and that way you're going to get
the most amount of distance and it's
going to be the easiest to catch
the other thing you can play around with
this tilting your hand upwards so the
card actually shoots up into the air
and then falls back down and lands in
your hand that can be really fun too but
just play around with it and find out
what you like the most
alright i hope you like that move if you
did and you want to support the channel
please hit that thumbs up down below
leave a comment if you want to learn
even more card magic and sleight of hand
you can check out the tutorial library
over at the 52cards.com website it's
completely free and there's a ton of
videos on there organized by difficulty
level and category and it's a great
place to learn that's all for now have a
great day and i will see you in the next
one peace
[Music]